Dear Nurture NJ Partners,
 
I am thrilled to share that we are making progress on our first-of-its-kind Maternal and Infant Health Innovation Center! This Center, through cutting-edge research, data analysis and innovation, will not only serve as a resource to the residents of Trenton and the State of New Jersey, but it will be a one-of-a-kind hub for developing groundbreaking solutions to our country’s maternal health crisis.
 
Last week, we released a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) to identify three anchor tenants to lead the Center, which will be based out of Trenton: a health care services provider, an Institution of Higher Education (IHE), and a Trenton-based Multi-Service Organization (MSO).
 
These three lead entities will work collaboratively to provide services to expectant and new parents and babies, advance the growth and development of the perinatal workforce, and deliver maternal and infant health policy, research, and innovation focused on eliminating racial disparities in maternal and infant health outcomes.
 
1. The lead Healthcare Clinical Services Provider will offer clinical care to Trenton residents focused on maternal and infant wellbeing and health equity, including prenatal and postpartum care, newborn and pediatric care, mental and behavioral health care, doula services, family planning services, and home visitation services.
 
2. The lead IHE will provide world-class research on maternal and infant health with a focus on innovative models of care, data processing, and health equity. The IHE will also serve as a hub for growing and training the perinatal workforce, such as community doulas and certified midwives. Additionally, the IHE tenant may offer pre-college programs in clinical and behavioral science, allied health programs for high schools, college programs that incentivize minority students to study health sciences, and Graduate Medical Education support for cultural competency and equity training.
 
3. The Trenton-based MSO will focus on providing services that directly impact social determinants of health such as food insecurity, housing, and transportation – issues that severely impact the daily lives of Trenton residents, especially residents of color. Services offered by the MSO may include case management, transportation assistance, assistance enrolling in public benefit programs, connections to food and housing programs, or exercise and yoga classes.
 
Additionally, organizations that wish to provide services through or in partnership with the Center but do not meet qualifications may fill out the Expressions of Interest Form here. We highly encourage responses from organizations with deep relationships in the Trenton community and with a track record of culturally competent service delivery that addresses legacies and patterns of systemic discrimination and bias.
 
Any questions regarding the RFQ can be directed to EDAProcurementQA@njeda.com by Monday, April 17th, 2023 at 2pm. Responses to questions will then be posted publicly on the website the following week.
 
Proposals are due by Monday, May 8th, 2023 at 2pm.
 
The Center is a key recommendation in the Nurture NJ Maternal and Infant Health Strategic Plan, our roadmap to making New Jersey the safest and most equitable state in the nation to deliver and raise a baby. It is designed to create innovative models of care and policy that will transform maternal health care locally in Trenton, across our state and throughout the county. I am eager to work alongside many of you in launching this Center, so that we can continue our vital work long after the Murphy administration and continue to serve New Jersey’s mothers and babies.
 
Best of luck to all who apply!
 
My very best,
 
Tammy Snyder Murphy
First Lady of New Jersey